documentation/v2-docusaurus/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
id: index
sidebar_label: Introduction
title: Welcome to Bigraph Framework
sidebar_position: 1
---

import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<center>
    <p>
        This manual provides a complete guide to the Bigraph Framework. <br/>
        <i>Last Updated: 2025-11-22</i>
    </p>
</center>


- **Stable**: <span class="badge badge-secondary" style={{backgroundColor: '#19c37d'}}>2.3.4</span>
- Previous Stable Versions: `2.3.3`, `2.3.2`, `2.3.1`, `2.3.0`

[//]: # (- Latest Experimental Version: <span class="badge badge-secondary" style={{backgroundColor: '#7952b3'}}>3.0.0-SNAPSHOT</span>)

:::info Migration `2.1.2` → `2.2.0`
For refactor and upgrade instructions, please see the
[**GitHub Releases Changelog**](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/releases/tag/v2.2.0).
:::

<details style={{ background: 'transparent' }}>
    <summary><strong>Version Compatibility</strong></summary>

This table specifies the metamodel standards supported by the Bigraph Framework.

<table border="0">
        <tr>
            <th>Bigraph Framework</th>
            <th>Bigraph Ecore Metamodel</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>1.0.0</td>
            <td>1.6.0</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>1.1.0</td>
            <td>1.6.1</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2.2.1, 2.2.0, 2.1.2, 2.1.1, <br/>2.1.0, 2.0.2, 2.0.1</td>
            <td>2.0.1, 1.6.1</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2.3.4, 2.3.3, 2.3.2, 2.3.1, 2.3.0</td>
            <td>2.0.2</td>
        </tr>
</table>

:::caution Caution
Since version 1.0.0 of Bigraph Framework: The new groupID and base package name `org.bigraphs.*` is used instead of the former one
`de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.*`.
:::

</details>

## What is Bigraph Framework?

**Bigraph Framework** is a software framework
written in Java for the creation and simulation of bigraphs and bigraphical reactive systems
to expedite the experimental evaluation of the bigraph theory in real-world applications.

The goal of this framework is to facilitate the implementation of reactive systems, including context-aware, agent-based systems or cyber-physical systems.
The high level API eases the programming of bigraphical systems for various applications.
The framework is developed around a [metamodel-first approach](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-ecore-metamodel), when working with bigraphical structures.

### Features

- Modelling and Storage
    - Dynamic creation of bigraphs at design time and runtime based on the [Bigraph Ecore Metamodel (BEM)](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-ecore-metamodel)
    - Read and write instance models and metamodels of a bigraph from and to the file system
- Visualization
    - Graphical export via GraphViz/DOT, PNG, Visualization of Compiler Graphs (VCG) format via yComp
    - Interactive visualization via GraphStream
- Bigraphical Reactive Systems (BRS): Simulate the evolution of bigraphs by reaction rules
    - Bigraph matching and rewriting via [jLibBig](https://bigraphs.github.io/jlibbig/) with tracking support
    - Dedicated subhypergraph matching on link graphs only (query-data matching)
    - Simulation and Model Checking (BFS, DFS, Random, MatchAll, MatchFirst)
    - Generation of a labeled transition system (LTS)
    - Predicate checking and logical connectors
    - Specify order of reaction rules via priorities
    - Tracking rules (trace node identities across reactions)
    - Conditional rules (not yet integrated in model checking procedure but available for custom usage)
- Model Importer/Exporter
    - Export a bigraph/LTS to common graph formats, e.g., DOT, GraphML, GXL, VCG
    - Export to formats of other bigraph tools: BigMC, BigraphER, BigRed, jLibBig, ...
- Attributed Bigraphs
    - Add arbitrary attributes to nodes
    - Attributes are preserved when doing rewriting (this requires tracking maps)

### What are Bigraphs?

**Bigraphs** are an emerging theory and metamodel for global ubiquitous systems,
mobile computing, context-aware systems and the Internet of Things (IoT), or in general: for reactive systems.
It is grounded on category theory and regarded as a unifying framework for many process calculi, including the ambient calculus, action calculi, Petri nets,
the Calculus of Communicating Systems (CCS) and π-calculus.
The theory provides an algebra and a graph rewriting mechanism to describe, study and analyze the dynamic behavior of reactive systems.

## Usage and Development Requirements

- Java >=21
- Maven v3.8.7 or Gradle


## Use / Install / Dependency Settings

Bigraph Framework is online available as Maven/Gradle dependency.

Artifacts are deployed to the _Central Repository_.

:::tip Building from Source
To build the source by yourself, follow the [README.md](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/blob/main/README.md) inside the code repository.
:::

### Quick Start: Starter Project Template

To get started using Bigraph Framework right away, download the Maven-based Project Skeleton

- [Starter Project Template using Bigraph Framework](https://www.bigraphs.org/software/bigraph-framework/download/Project-Skeleton-for-Bigraph-Framework.zip)
- See <a href={`https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/Project-Skeleton-for-Bigraph-Framework`}>here</a> for the latest version on GitHub

The README contained therein, describes how to compile and start an application.

Alternatively, follow the step-by-step project setup as described in the following.

### Package Dependencies

Depending on the build management tool you are using, one of the following
configuration for Maven or Gradle is necessary.

import * as myConstClass from "../src/components/BigraphDependencyBlock";
import * as myConstClass2 from "../src/components/BigraphRepositoryBlock";

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="maven" label="Maven" default>
        Add this inside the <code>dependencies</code> section of your project's <code>*.pom</code> file.
        Replace VERSION with the latest version.
        <br/>
        <br/>
        <pre>
        {myConstClass.MAVEN_DEP_CODE}
        </pre>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gradle" label="Gradle">
        Append this in your <code>build.gradle</code> file.
        Replace VERSION with the latest version.
        <br/>
        <br/>
        <pre>{myConstClass.GRADLE_DEP_CODE}</pre>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="manually" label="Manually">
        Manual setup is not recommended.
        Refer to the <a href={"https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/blob/main/README.md"}>README.md</a> in Bigraph Framework's code repository on how to build the framework from source.
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[//]: # (### Repository Setup for SNAPSHOT Releases)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (No additional configuration is necessary to resolve the dependencies above!)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (However, if you want SNAPSHOT releases, the following custom repository must be added as well.)

[//]: # (The configuration for Maven and Gradle is provided below.)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (<Tabs>)

[//]: # (    <TabItem value="maven" label="Maven" default>)

[//]: # (        The following Maven repository entry must be added to the <code>repositories</code> element of a <code>pom.xml</code> of a Maven-based Java project:)

[//]: # (        <pre>{myConstClass2.MAVEN_REP_CODE}</pre>)

[//]: # (    </TabItem>)

[//]: # (    <TabItem value="gradle" label="Gradle">)

[//]: # (        For Gradle, add this to the project's build gradle file:)

[//]: # (        <pre>{myConstClass2.GRADLE_REP_CODE}</pre>)

[//]: # (    </TabItem>)

[//]: # (</Tabs>)

### Logging Configuration

Bigraph Framework employs SLF4J as a facade for the log4j logging framework.

Depending on your project setup, you may need to include the following libraries in your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependencies>
    <!-- For any Maven project in general -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-api</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.9</version>
    </dependency>
    <!-- Use a no-operation (NOP) logger implementation -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-nop</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.7</version>
    </dependency>
    <!-- or, for example, the reload4j implementation (fork of log4j) -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-reload4j</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.9</version>
    </dependency>

    <!-- When used within a Spring project -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
        <exclusions>
            <exclusion>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-logging</artifactId>
            </exclusion>
        </exclusions>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-log4j2</artifactId>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

Not including these dependencies will result in warnings.
The example above shows how to use a NOP logger or a reload4j as the underlying logging framework in your project.

Commit message:

feat: Bigraph Ecore Metamodel 2.0.2 -> 2.0.3 --- Integrated Attributes for BLink (Edges, Outer Names) (AbstractSimpleReactiveSystem, BigraphEntity)

documentation/v2-docusaurus/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
id: index
sidebar_label: Introduction
title: Welcome to Bigraph Framework
sidebar_position: 1
---

import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<center>
    <p>
        This manual provides a complete guide to the Bigraph Framework. <br/>
        <i>Last Updated: 2025-11-22</i>
    </p>
</center>


- **Stable**: <span class="badge badge-secondary" style={{backgroundColor: '#19c37d'}}>2.3.4</span>
- Previous Stable Versions: `2.3.3`, `2.3.2`, `2.3.1`, `2.3.0`

[//]: # (- Latest Experimental Version: <span class="badge badge-secondary" style={{backgroundColor: '#7952b3'}}>3.0.0-SNAPSHOT</span>)

:::info Migration `2.1.2` → `2.2.0`
For refactor and upgrade instructions, please see the
[**GitHub Releases Changelog**](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/releases/tag/v2.2.0).
:::

<details style={{ background: 'transparent' }}>
    <summary><strong>Version Compatibility</strong></summary>

This table specifies the metamodel standards supported by the Bigraph Framework.

<table border="0">
        <tr>
            <th>Bigraph Framework</th>
            <th>Bigraph Ecore Metamodel</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>1.0.0</td>
            <td>1.6.0</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>1.1.0</td>
            <td>1.6.1</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2.2.1, 2.2.0, 2.1.2, 2.1.1, <br/>2.1.0, 2.0.2, 2.0.1</td>
            <td>2.0.1, 1.6.1</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2.3.4, 2.3.3, 2.3.2, 2.3.1, 2.3.0</td>
            <td>2.0.2</td>
        </tr>
</table>

:::caution Caution
Since version 1.0.0 of Bigraph Framework: The new groupID and base package name `org.bigraphs.*` is used instead of the former one
`de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.*`.
:::

</details>

## What is Bigraph Framework?

**Bigraph Framework** is a software framework
written in Java for the creation and simulation of bigraphs and bigraphical reactive systems
to expedite the experimental evaluation of the bigraph theory in real-world applications.

The goal of this framework is to facilitate the implementation of reactive systems, including context-aware, agent-based systems or cyber-physical systems.
The high level API eases the programming of bigraphical systems for various applications.
The framework is developed around a [metamodel-first approach](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-ecore-metamodel), when working with bigraphical structures.

### Features

- Modelling and Storage
    - Dynamic creation of bigraphs at design time and runtime based on the [Bigraph Ecore Metamodel (BEM)](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-ecore-metamodel)
    - Read and write instance models and metamodels of a bigraph from and to the file system
- Visualization
    - Graphical export via GraphViz/DOT, PNG, Visualization of Compiler Graphs (VCG) format via yComp
    - Interactive visualization via GraphStream
- Bigraphical Reactive Systems (BRS): Simulate the evolution of bigraphs by reaction rules
    - Bigraph matching and rewriting via [jLibBig](https://bigraphs.github.io/jlibbig/) with tracking support
    - Dedicated subhypergraph matching on link graphs only (query-data matching)
    - Simulation and Model Checking (BFS, DFS, Random, MatchAll, MatchFirst)
    - Generation of a labeled transition system (LTS)
    - Predicate checking and logical connectors
    - Specify order of reaction rules via priorities
    - Tracking rules (trace node identities across reactions)
    - Conditional rules (not yet integrated in model checking procedure but available for custom usage)
- Model Importer/Exporter
    - Export a bigraph/LTS to common graph formats, e.g., DOT, GraphML, GXL, VCG
    - Export to formats of other bigraph tools: BigMC, BigraphER, BigRed, jLibBig, ...
- Attributed Bigraphs
    - Add arbitrary attributes to nodes and links (edges and outer names)
    - Attributes are preserved when doing rewriting (this requires tracking maps)

### What are Bigraphs?

**Bigraphs** are an emerging theory and metamodel for global ubiquitous systems,
mobile computing, context-aware systems and the Internet of Things (IoT), or in general: for reactive systems.
It is grounded on category theory and regarded as a unifying framework for many process calculi, including the ambient calculus, action calculi, Petri nets,
the Calculus of Communicating Systems (CCS) and π-calculus.
The theory provides an algebra and a graph rewriting mechanism to describe, study and analyze the dynamic behavior of reactive systems.

## Usage and Development Requirements

- Java >=21
- Maven v3.8.7 or Gradle


## Use / Install / Dependency Settings

Bigraph Framework is online available as Maven/Gradle dependency.

Artifacts are deployed to the _Central Repository_.

:::tip Building from Source
To build the source by yourself, follow the [README.md](https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/blob/main/README.md) inside the code repository.
:::

### Quick Start: Starter Project Template

To get started using Bigraph Framework right away, download the Maven-based Project Skeleton

- [Starter Project Template using Bigraph Framework](https://www.bigraphs.org/software/bigraph-framework/download/Project-Skeleton-for-Bigraph-Framework.zip)
- See <a href={`https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/Project-Skeleton-for-Bigraph-Framework`}>here</a> for the latest version on GitHub

The README contained therein, describes how to compile and start an application.

Alternatively, follow the step-by-step project setup as described in the following.

### Package Dependencies

Depending on the build management tool you are using, one of the following
configuration for Maven or Gradle is necessary.

import * as myConstClass from "../src/components/BigraphDependencyBlock";
import * as myConstClass2 from "../src/components/BigraphRepositoryBlock";

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="maven" label="Maven" default>
        Add this inside the <code>dependencies</code> section of your project's <code>*.pom</code> file.
        Replace VERSION with the latest version.
        <br/>
        <br/>
        <pre>
        {myConstClass.MAVEN_DEP_CODE}
        </pre>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gradle" label="Gradle">
        Append this in your <code>build.gradle</code> file.
        Replace VERSION with the latest version.
        <br/>
        <br/>
        <pre>{myConstClass.GRADLE_DEP_CODE}</pre>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="manually" label="Manually">
        Manual setup is not recommended.
        Refer to the <a href={"https://github.com/bigraph-toolkit-suite/bigraphs.bigraph-framework/blob/main/README.md"}>README.md</a> in Bigraph Framework's code repository on how to build the framework from source.
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

[//]: # (### Repository Setup for SNAPSHOT Releases)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (No additional configuration is necessary to resolve the dependencies above!)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (However, if you want SNAPSHOT releases, the following custom repository must be added as well.)

[//]: # (The configuration for Maven and Gradle is provided below.)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (<Tabs>)

[//]: # (    <TabItem value="maven" label="Maven" default>)

[//]: # (        The following Maven repository entry must be added to the <code>repositories</code> element of a <code>pom.xml</code> of a Maven-based Java project:)

[//]: # (        <pre>{myConstClass2.MAVEN_REP_CODE}</pre>)

[//]: # (    </TabItem>)

[//]: # (    <TabItem value="gradle" label="Gradle">)

[//]: # (        For Gradle, add this to the project's build gradle file:)

[//]: # (        <pre>{myConstClass2.GRADLE_REP_CODE}</pre>)

[//]: # (    </TabItem>)

[//]: # (</Tabs>)

### Logging Configuration

Bigraph Framework employs SLF4J as a facade for the log4j logging framework.

Depending on your project setup, you may need to include the following libraries in your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependencies>
    <!-- For any Maven project in general -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-api</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.9</version>
    </dependency>
    <!-- Use a no-operation (NOP) logger implementation -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-nop</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.7</version>
    </dependency>
    <!-- or, for example, the reload4j implementation (fork of log4j) -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>slf4j-reload4j</artifactId>
        <version>2.0.9</version>
    </dependency>

    <!-- When used within a Spring project -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
        <exclusions>
            <exclusion>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-logging</artifactId>
            </exclusion>
        </exclusions>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-log4j2</artifactId>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

Not including these dependencies will result in warnings.
The example above shows how to use a NOP logger or a reload4j as the underlying logging framework in your project.
