documentation/v2-docusaurus/docs/persistence/persistence-intro.mdx, before:

---
id: persistence-intro
title: Persisting Bigraphs
sidebar_position: 1
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem_0 from '!!raw-loader!../assets/persistence/storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem-0.java';

The framework itself provides simple means for storing and loading bigraphical metamodels and instance models using the
capabilities of [Eclipse EMF](https://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/).

Therefore, the utility class `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.core.BigraphFileModelManagement` within the `bigraph-core`
module comprises methods for persisting bigraphical models to the filesystem.
Basically, `BigraphFileModelManagement` is a simple file-based model
management utility class that serializes (deserializes) to (from) XMI and Ecore:
- Serializes/Exports Ecore-based bigraph model objects (`EObject` and `EPackage`) to `*.xmi` and `*.ecore`, respectively.
- Deserializes/Imports Ecore files (`*.xmi` and `*.ecore`) to Ecore-based bigraph model objects (`EObject` and `EPackage`)

XMI provides an XML representation for Ecore constructs.

Both operations are provided by the inner classes `Load` and `Store` of `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.core.BigraphFileModelManagement`
to easily distinguish and use them.

> **Note:** For a more sophisticated persistence solution, we refer the reader to [Eclipse Connected Data Objects (CDO) Model Repository](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/modeling.emf.cdo)
> and the corresponding implementation [spring-data-cdo](https://git-st.inf.tu-dresden.de/bigraphs/spring-data-cdo) for working with the [Spring framework](https://spring.io/).

## Output format

For the metamodel the file extension `*.ecore` is used and for the instance model `*.xmi`.

The instance model includes a direct reference to its metamodel which can be used for validation.
This information can also be changed (or manually edited afterwards).
This is described in [Storing an instance model to the filesystem](#storing-an-instance-model-to-the-filesystem)

## Bigraphical Metamodel

To only store the meta-model of a concrete bigraph (i.e., an abstract bigraph over a signature, also called *meta model
over a signature*), we call the method `BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsMetaModel()`.
Several overloaded methods exist that support, for example, also input streams.

### Storing a metamodel to the filesystem

For demonstration, we create a simple signature and afterwards a bigraph

<CodeBlock className="language-java">{storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem_0}</CodeBlock>

As shown above, the metamodel data must be passed to a special method available
from `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.core.factory.BigraphFactory`. The
method `exportAsMetaModel(EcoreBigraph, OutputStream)` is used then to output the Ecore representation to the
filesystem.

### Loading a metamodel from the filesystem

Note that various overloaded methods exist:

```java
BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphMetaModel(...);
BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.signatureMetaModel(...);
```

#### Example: Loading the Bigraph Meta-metamodel

Bigraph Framework also contains a bigraph "meta-metamodel" which can be acquired at any time by calling:

```java
EPackage bigraphMetaModel=BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.internalBigraphMetaMetaModel();
```

This metamodel is used to dynamically create bigraphs over user-defined signatures, thus, representing the
meta-metamodel of every metamodel created by a builder instance.

### Changing the Metadata of a Metamodel

We can also pass some additional meta data to the bigraph builder.
This gives us the option to specify the namespace and the URI for the metamodel.
Therefore, the following data structure is needed:

```java
EMetaModelData.builder().setName("sample")
        .setNsPrefix("bigraph").setNsUri("org.example.bigraphs");
```

located in the package `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.core.datatypes` of the `bigraph-core` module.

[//]  # (Its purpose should be self-explanatory from the above example &#40;see also below&#41;.)

Some BigraphFactory methods accept the metadata object.

> **Note:** Changing the metadata of a metamodel introduces problems concerning model validation.
> When modified metamodels are imported again, validation may fail.

## Bigraphical Instance Model

### Storing an instance model to the filesystem

To store an instance model (i.e., a concrete bigraph over a signature):

```java
// create some bigraph via the builder
PureBigraph bigraph=...;
BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsInstanceModel(bigraph,new FileOutputStream("instance-model.xmi"));
```

To change the namespace location of the corresponding metamodel, you can provide this information as follows:

```java
BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsInstanceModel(
        bigraph, // the bigraph to export
        new FileOutputStream("instance.xmi"), // the file location
        "./path/to/meta-model.ecore" // the new namespace location of its metamodel
);
```

Signatures are also supported for export:

```java
exportAsInstanceModel(EcoreSignature signature, OutputStream outputStream)
```

### Loading an instance model from the filesystem

Instance models can be loaded directly from the filesystem like this:

```java
List<EObject> eObjects = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphInstanceModel("instance.xmi");
```

In the example above, the validity of the instance model is only performed against the bigraph meta-meta-model. However,
when providing a meta-model, the instance model is validated against it:

```java
EPackage metaModel = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphMetaModel("meta-model.ecore");
List<EObject> eObjects = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphInstanceModel(
        metaModel, // the metamodel
        "instance.xmi" // the file location of the instance model
);
```

> **Note:** If the metadata of the metamodel was changed, this may produce errors and validation may fail.

Commit message:

renamed all packages to the new base package org.bigraphs.framework

documentation/v2-docusaurus/docs/persistence/persistence-intro.mdx, after:

---
id: persistence-intro
title: Persisting Bigraphs
sidebar_position: 1
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem_0 from '!!raw-loader!../assets/persistence/storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem-0.java';

The framework itself provides simple means for storing and loading bigraphical metamodels and instance models using the
capabilities of [Eclipse EMF](https://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/).

Therefore, the utility class `org.bigraphs.framework.core.BigraphFileModelManagement` within the `bigraph-core`
module comprises methods for persisting bigraphical models to the filesystem.
Basically, `BigraphFileModelManagement` is a simple file-based model
management utility class that serializes (deserializes) to (from) XMI and Ecore:
- Serializes/Exports Ecore-based bigraph model objects (`EObject` and `EPackage`) to `*.xmi` and `*.ecore`, respectively.
- Deserializes/Imports Ecore files (`*.xmi` and `*.ecore`) to Ecore-based bigraph model objects (`EObject` and `EPackage`)

XMI provides an XML representation for Ecore constructs.

Both operations are provided by the inner classes `Load` and `Store` of `org.bigraphs.framework.core.BigraphFileModelManagement`
to easily distinguish and use them.

> **Note:** For a more sophisticated persistence solution, we refer the reader to [Eclipse Connected Data Objects (CDO) Model Repository](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/modeling.emf.cdo)
> and the corresponding implementation [spring-data-cdo](https://git-st.inf.tu-dresden.de/bigraphs/spring-data-cdo) for working with the [Spring framework](https://spring.io/).

## Output format

For the metamodel the file extension `*.ecore` is used and for the instance model `*.xmi`.

The instance model includes a direct reference to its metamodel which can be used for validation.
This information can also be changed (or manually edited afterwards).
This is described in [Storing an instance model to the filesystem](#storing-an-instance-model-to-the-filesystem)

## Bigraphical Metamodel

To only store the meta-model of a concrete bigraph (i.e., an abstract bigraph over a signature, also called *meta model
over a signature*), we call the method `BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsMetaModel()`.
Several overloaded methods exist that support, for example, also input streams.

### Storing a metamodel to the filesystem

For demonstration, we create a simple signature and afterwards a bigraph

<CodeBlock className="language-java">{storing_a_metamodel_to_the_filesystem_0}</CodeBlock>

As shown above, the metamodel data must be passed to a special method available
from `org.bigraphs.framework.core.factory.BigraphFactory`. The
method `exportAsMetaModel(EcoreBigraph, OutputStream)` is used then to output the Ecore representation to the
filesystem.

### Loading a metamodel from the filesystem

Note that various overloaded methods exist:

```java
BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphMetaModel(...);
BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.signatureMetaModel(...);
```

#### Example: Loading the Bigraph Meta-metamodel

Bigraph Framework also contains a bigraph "meta-metamodel" which can be acquired at any time by calling:

```java
EPackage bigraphMetaModel=BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.internalBigraphMetaMetaModel();
```

This metamodel is used to dynamically create bigraphs over user-defined signatures, thus, representing the
meta-metamodel of every metamodel created by a builder instance.

### Changing the Metadata of a Metamodel

We can also pass some additional meta data to the bigraph builder.
This gives us the option to specify the namespace and the URI for the metamodel.
Therefore, the following data structure is needed:

```java
EMetaModelData.builder().setName("sample")
        .setNsPrefix("bigraph").setNsUri("org.example.bigraphs");
```

located in the package `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.core.datatypes` of the `bigraph-core` module.

[//]  # (Its purpose should be self-explanatory from the above example &#40;see also below&#41;.)

Some BigraphFactory methods accept the metadata object.

> **Note:** Changing the metadata of a metamodel introduces problems concerning model validation.
> When modified metamodels are imported again, validation may fail.

## Bigraphical Instance Model

### Storing an instance model to the filesystem

To store an instance model (i.e., a concrete bigraph over a signature):

```java
// create some bigraph via the builder
PureBigraph bigraph=...;
BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsInstanceModel(bigraph,new FileOutputStream("instance-model.xmi"));
```

To change the namespace location of the corresponding metamodel, you can provide this information as follows:

```java
BigraphFileModelManagement.Store.exportAsInstanceModel(
        bigraph, // the bigraph to export
        new FileOutputStream("instance.xmi"), // the file location
        "./path/to/meta-model.ecore" // the new namespace location of its metamodel
);
```

Signatures are also supported for export:

```java
exportAsInstanceModel(EcoreSignature signature, OutputStream outputStream)
```

### Loading an instance model from the filesystem

Instance models can be loaded directly from the filesystem like this:

```java
List<EObject> eObjects = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphInstanceModel("instance.xmi");
```

In the example above, the validity of the instance model is only performed against the bigraph meta-meta-model. However,
when providing a meta-model, the instance model is validated against it:

```java
EPackage metaModel = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphMetaModel("meta-model.ecore");
List<EObject> eObjects = BigraphFileModelManagement.Load.bigraphInstanceModel(
        metaModel, // the metamodel
        "instance.xmi" // the file location of the instance model
);
```

> **Note:** If the metadata of the metamodel was changed, this may produce errors and validation may fail.
