---
id: converter
title: Introduction
---

<!--# Converting Bigraphs-->

A bigraph model may be converted to and loaded from several formats,
including GraphML, [BigMC](http://bigraph.org/bigmc/), [GXL](http://www.gupro.de/GXL/) and
[BigraphER](http://www.dcs.gla.ac.uk/~michele/bigrapher.html).

Therefore, the framework module `bigraph-converter` contains the corresponding
encoders/pretty printers etc.

## Exporting to other bigraph tools

The following bigraph tools are supported by now:
{@inject: supportedConversions}

Two conversion strategies are followed. On that uses a **pretty printer** (BigMC, BigraphER), and one that uses **adapter classes** (BigRed).
Regarding the latter, BigRed itself provides some Java libraries to export XML files that we may also exploit.
For the former, we cannot reuse existing code (because they are written in C and OCaml), thus, the framework provides a custom implementation for exporting bigraphs.

### PrettyPrinter Approach

The encoding follows the same prinicpal schema. The specific implementation of the interface `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.converter.ReactiveSystemPrettyPrinter` has to be instantiated.
The interface has the following methods:
<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

The generated output can be printed to the console or redirected to any other output stream:


### `String toString(R system)`

Returns the result of a reactive system encoding as string.

### `void toOutputStream(R system, OutputStream outputStream)`

Redirects the result of an encoding to an output stream.



> Note that the existing bigraph tools vary in their feature set.
> That means that not all properties specified in Bigraph Framework may be directly translated to the language supported by each tool.

#### Tools supported

- [BigMC](converter/bigmc-converter) using `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.converter.bigmc.BigMcTransformator`
- [BigraphER](converter/bigrapher-converter) using `de.tudresden.inf.st.bigraphs.converter.bigrapher.BigrapherTransformator`

### Adapter Approach

For each respective tool different adapters for signatures, agents and reaction rules are provided.

#### Tools supported

- [BigRed](converter/bigred-converter#exporting-to-bigred)
    - for example, the `org.bigraph.model.SignatureAdapter` to be used with BigRed's `org.bigraph.model.savers.SignatureXMLSaver`



## Loading Bigraphs

Currently, bigraphs can be loaded only from BigRed XML files into Bigraph Framework.